Compiling OCaml in Depth
========================

We will begin with an overview of how OCaml is compiled. We will see that a boot
OCaml system is used to compile the OCaml system you have on your machine.

The second part is how C and assembly language are compiled, and where the C
and assembly language compilers get invoked.

Then we will discuss how cross-compilation typically works in the C language.

Finally we'll use the understanding we've gained for how one OCaml system
compiles another system to understand how cross-compilation works in
OCaml.

How OCaml is compiled
---------------------

In this section we will walk through the source code for OCaml at https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml/tree/4.13.

.. note::
    Parts of the explanation below comes from https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml/blob/4.13/BOOTSTRAP.adoc

Let's start with the ``boot/`` directory:

.. code:: text

    boot
    ├── menhir
    │   ├── menhirLib.ml
    │   ├── menhirLib.mli
    │   ├── parser.ml
    │   └── parser.mli
    ├── ocamlc
    └── ocamllex

Both ``boot/ocamlc`` and ``boot/ocamllex`` are OCaml bytecode files. OCaml bytecode is a machine language code
for a very simple virtual machine called the
`Caml Virtual Machine (or Zinc Machine) <http://cadmium.x9c.fr/distrib/caml-instructions.pdf>`_.

``ocamllex`` is the token lexer. If we could run ``ocamllex`` then we could take a ``.ml`` OCaml source file and emit OCaml tokens
(ex. ``=``) and keywords (ex. ``module``) that could be consumed by the OCaml parser ``parser.ml`` and its runtime library
``menhirLib.ml``. The end result would be an `abstract syntax tree called a Parsetree <https://ocaml.org/api/compilerlibref/Parsetree.html>`_
from a single ``.ml`` source file.

``ocamlc`` is the bytecode compiler. If we could run ``ocamlc`` then we could take any ``.ml`` source code
and generate more bytecode.

All we are missing so far is a way to run arbitrary bytecode files like ``ocamlc`` and ``ocamllex``. That missing
program is ``ocamlrun``: ``ocamlrun`` is the bytecode interpreter for the Caml Virtual Machine.

To build executables like the ``ocamlrun`` bytecode interpreter, OCaml uses an "autoconf" build system where:

- ``./configure`` inspects your system to find C compilers (that is how we know which C compiler to
  use to generate the ``ocamlrun`` program) and assembly language compilers. It captures the C and assembly
  compilers and their flags into ``./Makefile.config`` using a template file ``Makefile.config.in``. There
  are also other files created from ``*.in`` templates
- ``make`` uses the configuration captured in ``./Makefile.config`` to generate the ``utils/config.ml`` module
  from the ``utils/config.mlp`` template. There are also other modules created from ``*.mlp``
  templates. After ``make`` has generated all the source files, it can build C programs like ``ocamlrun``
  using the C compiler and OCaml programs like ``ocaml`` and ``ocamlc`` using ``ocamlrun boot/ocamlc``.

``ocamlrun`` is compiled using C code (``.c``); here is an abbreviated listing of ocamlrun source code:

.. code:: text

    runtime
    ├── alloc.c
    ├── array.c
    ├── backtrace.c
    ├── callback.c
    ├── caml
    │   ├── alloc.h
    │   ├── backtrace.h
    │   ├── callback.h
    │   ├── config.h
    │   ├── domain.h
    │   ├── domain_state.h
    │   ├── domain_state.tbl
    │   ├── gc.h
    │   ├── gc_ctrl.h
    │   ├── io.h
    │   ├── m.h
    │   ├── m.h.in
    │   ├── major_gc.h
    │   ├── minor_gc.h
    │   ├── prims.h
    │   ├── s.h
    │   ├── s.h.in
    │   ├── signals.h
    │   ├── startup.h
    │   ├── startup_aux.h
    │   └── sys.h
    ├── domain.c
    ├── hash.c
    ├── io.c
    ├── lexing.c
    ├── main.c
    ├── major_gc.c
    ├── minor_gc.c
    ├── parsing.c
    ├── prims.c
    ├── riscv.S
    ├── signals.c
    ├── startup_aux.c
    ├── startup_nat.c
    ├── str.c
    ├── sys.c
    ├── unix.c
    └── win32.c

After ``make`` compiles the ``runtime/`` directory with the C compiler we will have the
``runtime/ocamlrun`` executable that can run any bytecode file and a runtime library
for bytecode called ``libcamlrun``. We can now:

- compile OCaml files with ``runtime/ocamlrun boot/ocamlc`` and run the generated bytecode with ``runtime/ocamlrun``
- interact with Unix/Windows system library C functions from within bytecode since the compiled assembly language (ex. ``amd64.S``)
  contains low-level logic for OCaml to call C functions and C functions to callback into OCaml

That sounds like we are finished, but we now have three problems.

Problem 1: Creating a modern OCaml compiler
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The first problem is that we have been using the ``boot/ocamlc`` OCaml compiler. That boot OCaml compiler may be an old OCaml compiler
that can't compile the latest OCaml source code. So we compile a new OCaml compiler ``./ocamlc`` bytecode file from the following
abbreviated OCaml compiler source code:

.. code:: text

    .
    ├── bytecomp
    │   ├── bytegen.ml
    │   ├── bytelibrarian.ml
    │   ├── bytelink.ml
    │   ├── bytepackager.ml
    │   ├── bytesections.ml
    │   ├── dll.ml
    │   ├── emitcode.ml
    │   ├── instruct.ml
    │   ├── meta.ml
    │   ├── opcodes.ml
    │   ├── printinstr.ml
    │   └── symtable.ml
    ├── driver
    │   ├── compenv.ml
    │   ├── compile.ml
    │   ├── compile_common.ml
    │   ├── compmisc.ml
    │   ├── errors.ml
    │   ├── main.ml
    │   ├── main_args.ml
    │   ├── maindriver.ml
    │   ├── makedepend.ml
    │   ├── optcompile.ml
    │   ├── opterrors.ml
    │   ├── optmain.ml
    │   ├── optmaindriver.ml
    │   └── pparse.ml
    ├── lambda
    │   ├── debuginfo.ml
    │   ├── lambda.ml
    │   ├── matching.ml
    │   ├── printlambda.ml
    │   ├── runtimedef.ml
    │   ├── simplif.ml
    │   ├── switch.ml
    │   ├── translattribute.ml
    │   ├── translclass.ml
    │   ├── translcore.ml
    │   ├── translmod.ml
    │   ├── translobj.ml
    |   └── translprim.ml
    └── typing
    |   ├── btype.ml
    |   ├── ...
    |   ├── ctype.ml
    |   ├── ...
    |   ├── primitive.ml
    |   ├── ...
    |   ├── type_immediacy.ml
    |   ├── typeclass.ml
    |   ├── typecore.ml
    |   ├── typedecl.ml
    |   ├── typedecl_immediacy.ml
    |   ├── typedecl_properties.ml
    |   ├── typedecl_separability.ml
    |   ├── typedecl_unboxed.ml
    |   ├── typedecl_variance.ml
    |   ├── typedtree.ml
    |   ├── typemod.ml
    |   ├── typeopt.ml
    |   ├── types.ml
    |   ├── typetexp.ml
    |   └── untypeast.ml
    └── utils/
        ├── ...
        ├── clflags.ml
        ├── config.ml
        ├── config.mlp
        ├── ...

Once we have a modern ``./ocamlc`` we can see the configuration constants embedded in ``utils/config.ml`` if you run ``runtime/ocamlrun ./ocamlc -config``:

.. code:: text

    version: 4.12.1
    ...
    ccomp_type: cc
    c_compiler: gcc
    ocamlc_cflags: -O2 -fno-strict-aliasing -fwrapv -fPIC
    ocamlc_cppflags: -D_FILE_OFFSET_BITS=64 -D_REENTRANT
    ocamlopt_cflags: -O2 -fno-strict-aliasing -fwrapv -fPIC
    ocamlopt_cppflags: -D_FILE_OFFSET_BITS=64 -D_REENTRANT
    bytecomp_c_compiler: gcc -O2 -fno-strict-aliasing -fwrapv -fPIC  -D_FILE_OFFSET_BITS=64 -D_REENTRANT
    native_c_compiler: gcc -O2 -fno-strict-aliasing -fwrapv -fPIC  -D_FILE_OFFSET_BITS=64 -D_REENTRANT
    bytecomp_c_libraries: -lm -ldl  -lpthread
    native_c_libraries: -lm -ldl
    native_pack_linker: ld -r -o
    ranlib: ranlib
    ...
    asm: gcc -c
    ...

The net effect is that the C and assembly compilers are hardcoded _inside_ the ``ocamlc`` executable.

Problem 2: Creating the standard library
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The second problem is that we don't have the OCaml standard library. We can compile the standard library
bytecode (``.cmo`` object files and ``.cma`` object libraries) from:

.. code:: text

    stdlib
    ├── arg.ml
    ├── array.ml
    ├── arrayLabels.ml
    ├── atomic.ml
    ├── bigarray.ml
    ├── bool.ml
    ├── buffer.ml
    ├── bytes.ml
    ├── bytesLabels.ml
    ├── callback.ml
    ├── char.ml
    ├── complex.ml
    ├── digest.ml
    ├── either.ml
    ├── ephemeron.ml
    ├── filename.ml
    ├── float.ml
    ├── format.ml
    ├── fun.ml
    ├── gc.ml
    ├── genlex.ml
    ├── hashbang
    ├── hashtbl.ml
    ├── header.c
    ├── headernt.c
    ├── int.ml
    ├── int32.ml
    ├── int64.ml
    ├── lazy.ml
    ├── lexing.ml
    ├── list.ml
    ├── listLabels.ml
    ├── map.ml
    ├── marshal.ml
    ├── moreLabels.ml
    ├── nativeint.ml
    ├── obj.ml
    ├── oo.ml
    ├── option.ml
    ├── parsing.ml
    ├── pervasives.ml
    ├── printexc.ml
    ├── printf.ml
    ├── queue.ml
    ├── random.ml
    ├── result.ml
    ├── scanf.ml
    ├── seq.ml
    ├── set.ml
    ├── stack.ml
    ├── stdLabels.ml
    ├── std_exit.ml
    ├── stdlib.a
    ├── stdlib.ml
    ├── stream.ml
    ├── string.ml
    ├── stringLabels.ml
    ├── sys.ml
    ├── sys.mlp
    ├── uchar.ml
    ├── unit.ml
    └── weak.ml

Problem 3: Generating native code
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The third problem is that we completely ignored how we will generate native code. That is the subject of discussion for the
next section.

Where C and assembly compilers are used
---------------------------------------

We've already discussed how the OCaml compiler itself uses a C compiler to compile the runtime/ directory into the ``ocamlrun`` program. And
how ``ocamlrun`` can run other bytecode files and generate (with ``ocamlc``) more bytecode files.

OCaml's native code compiler program ``./ocamlopt`` is build the same way we built ``./ocamlc``, except ``bytecomp/`` has been replaced by ``asmcomp/``
and ``middle_end/``:

.. code:: text

    .
    ├── asmcomp
    │   ├── CSE.ml -> arm/CSE.ml
    │   ├── CSEgen.ml
    │   ├── amd64
    │   │   ├── CSE.ml
    │   │   ├── arch.ml
    │   │   ├── emit.mlp
    │   │   ├── proc.ml
    │   │   ├── reload.ml
    │   │   ├── scheduling.ml
    │   │   └── selection.ml
    │   ├── arch.ml -> arm/arch.ml
    │   ├── arm
    │   │   ├── CSE.ml
    │   │   ├── arch.ml
    │   │   ├── emit.mlp
    │   │   ├── proc.ml
    │   │   ├── reload.ml
    │   │   ├── scheduling.ml
    │   │   └── selection.ml
    │   ├── arm64
    │   │   └── \*.ml
    │   ├── asmgen.ml
    │   ├── asmlibrarian.ml
    │   ├── asmlink.ml
    │   ├── asmpackager.ml
    │   ├── branch_relaxation.ml
    │   ├── branch_relaxation_intf.ml
    │   ├── cmm.ml
    │   ├── cmm_helpers.ml
    │   ├── cmmgen.ml
    │   ├── cmmgen_state.ml
    │   ├── coloring.ml
    │   ├── comballoc.ml
    │   ├── deadcode.ml
    │   ├── emit.ml
    │   ├── emitaux.ml
    │   ├── i386
    │   │   └── \*.ml
    │   ├── interf.ml
    │   ├── interval.ml
    │   ├── linear.ml
    │   ├── linearize.ml
    │   ├── linscan.ml
    │   ├── liveness.ml
    │   ├── mach.ml
    │   ├── power
    │   │   └── \*.ml
    │   ├── printcmm.ml
    │   ├── printlinear.ml
    │   ├── printmach.ml
    │   ├── proc.ml -> arm/proc.ml
    │   ├── reg.ml
    │   ├── reload.ml -> arm/reload.ml
    │   ├── reloadgen.ml
    │   ├── riscv
    │   │   └── \*.ml
    │   ├── s390x
    │   │   └── \*.ml
    │   ├── schedgen.ml
    │   ├── scheduling.ml -> arm/scheduling.ml
    │   ├── selectgen.ml
    │   ├── selection.ml -> arm/selection.ml
    │   ├── spill.ml
    │   ├── split.ml
    │   ├── strmatch.ml
    │   ├── x86_dsl.ml
    │   ├── x86_gas.ml
    │   ├── x86_masm.ml
    │   └── x86_proc.ml
    ├── driver
    │   └── \*.ml
    ├── lambda
    │   └── \*.ml
    ├── middle_end
    │   ├── backend_var.ml
    │   ├── clambda.ml
    │   ├── clambda_primitives.ml
    │   ├── closure
    │   │   ├── closure.ml
    │   │   └── closure_middle_end.ml
    │   ├── compilation_unit.ml
    │   ├── compilenv.ml
    │   ├── convert_primitives.ml
    │   ├── flambda
    │   │   ├── alias_analysis.ml
    │   │   ├── allocated_const.ml
    │   │   ├── augment_specialised_args.ml
    │   │   ├── base_types
    │   │   ├── build_export_info.ml
    │   │   ├── closure_conversion.ml
    │   │   ├── closure_conversion_aux.ml
    │   │   ├── closure_offsets.ml
    │   │   ├── effect_analysis.ml
    │   │   ├── export_info.ml
    │   │   ├── export_info_for_pack.ml
    │   │   ├── extract_projections.ml
    │   │   ├── find_recursive_functions.ml
    │   │   ├── flambda.ml
    │   │   ├── flambda_invariants.ml
    │   │   ├── flambda_iterators.ml
    │   │   ├── flambda_middle_end.ml
    │   │   ├── flambda_to_clambda.ml
    │   │   ├── flambda_utils.ml
    │   │   ├── freshening.ml
    │   │   ├── import_approx.ml
    │   │   ├── inconstant_idents.ml
    │   │   ├── initialize_symbol_to_let_symbol.ml
    │   │   ├── inline_and_simplify.ml
    │   │   ├── inline_and_simplify_aux.ml
    │   │   ├── inlining_cost.ml
    │   │   ├── inlining_decision.ml
    │   │   ├── inlining_stats.ml
    │   │   ├── inlining_stats_types.ml
    │   │   ├── inlining_transforms.ml
    │   │   ├── invariant_params.ml
    │   │   ├── lift_code.ml
    │   │   ├── lift_constants.ml
    │   │   ├── lift_let_to_initialize_symbol.ml
    │   │   ├── parameter.ml
    │   │   ├── pass_wrapper.ml
    │   │   ├── projection.ml
    │   │   ├── ref_to_variables.ml
    │   │   ├── remove_free_vars_equal_to_args.ml
    │   │   ├── remove_unused_arguments.ml
    │   │   ├── remove_unused_closure_vars.ml
    │   │   ├── remove_unused_program_constructs.ml
    │   │   ├── share_constants.ml
    │   │   ├── simple_value_approx.ml
    │   │   ├── simplify_boxed_integer_ops.ml
    │   │   ├── simplify_common.ml
    │   │   ├── simplify_primitives.ml
    │   │   ├── traverse_for_exported_symbols.ml
    │   │   ├── un_anf.ml
    │   │   ├── unbox_closures.ml
    │   │   ├── unbox_free_vars_of_closures.ml
    │   │   └── unbox_specialised_args.ml
    │   ├── internal_variable_names.ml
    │   ├── linkage_name.ml
    │   ├── printclambda.ml
    │   ├── printclambda_primitives.ml
    │   ├── semantics_of_primitives.ml
    │   ├── symbol.ml
    │   └── variable.ml
    └── typing
        └── \*.ml

Where bytecode uses the bytecode runtime library ``libcamlrun``, native code uses a different
runtime library ``libasmrun`` that is built in the same runtime/ directory but
that includes the assembly code (``.asm`` and ``.S``) in that directory:

.. code:: text

    runtime
    ├── amd64.S
    ├── amd64nt.asm
    ├── arm.S
    ├── arm64.S
    ├── i386.S
    ├── i386nt.asm
    ├── power.S
    ├── riscv.S
    └── s390x.S

``ocamlopt`` performs a variety of activities including:

- it translates ``.ml`` files into architecture-specific assembly language source code (``.s`` files) using the code in
  ``asmcomp/``. ``ocamlopt`` then compiles the assembly language into native object files (Unix ``.o`` or Windows ``.obj`` files)
  using the assembly compiler named in the ``utils/config.ml`` module (the same module you saw with ``ocamlc -config``)
- it compiles ``.C`` files into native object files using the C compiler named in ``utils/config.ml``
- it links the native object files into a native executable using the native linker named in ``utils/config.ml``

Now we are basically done. With ``ocamlopt`` we can recompile everything into native code, including the compilers.
For example ``./ocamlc.opt`` and ``./ocamlopt.opt`` are created using the same procedure as ``./ocamlc`` and ``./ocamlopt``, except instead
of using ``./ocamlc`` to compile them into bytecode executable, ``./ocamlopt`` is used to compile them into native code executables.

How C code is cross-compiled
----------------------------

For this section we'll use an example where we cross-compile the Java compiler
``javac``. Just like OCaml much of the low-level Java source code is C code. The
concepts introduced in this section will carry forward to the
next section where we describe the cross-compiling of OCaml compilers ``ocamlc``
and ``ocamlopt``.

We want to use an Ubuntu 64-bit machine to create a ``javac.exe`` that can run
on Windows. To compile ``javac.exe`` there are three different machines we need to
consider:

Build Machine
  You would use the following "autoconf" pattern to build yourself a new
  ``javac`` binary:

  .. code:: c

      git clone https://git.openjdk.java.net/jdk/
      cd jdk
      ./configure ...
      make ...
      make install

  The machine where you type "git clone" and "./configure" is the Build Machine.

  The Build Machine is a **Ubuntu (Linux x86_64) 64-bit machine**.

Host Machine
  Since we want to run ``javac.exe`` on Windows machines, the Host Machine
  is a **Windows Intel/AMD 64-bit machine**.

Target Machine
  ``javac.exe`` will compile ``.java`` source files into ``.class`` bytecode
  files. These ``.class`` bytecode files can be run on any machine.

  The Target Machine is *any* machine; we can take the Java compiled output
  ``Main.class`` that was produced on a Windows machine and then run the
  ``Main.class`` on a macOS machine.

To produce a Windows ``javac.exe`` from a Linux machine we need to supply
a C compiler that is a Linux executable that runs on Linux but generate
Windows executables (.exe) and Windows shared libraries (.dll).

1. If you want a GCC compiler you would install and use the compiler
   ``/usr/bin/x86_64-w64-mingw32-gcc-win32`` using your Linux package
   manager (ex. ``apt install gcc-mingw-w64-x86-64`` on Ubuntu).
   If you instead wanted to generate 32-bit Windows executables you would install
   and use ``/usr/bin/i686-w64-mingw32-gcc-win32``.

   In general, GCC prefixes its compilers and tools with the Host Machine
   "triple" (ex. ``i686-w64-mingw32`` describes 32-bit Intel/AMD Windows targets).
2. If you want a Clang compiler you would install and the compiler
   ``/usr/bin/clang`` (ex. ``apt install clang`` on Ubuntu). You would use
   "target" compiler flags (typically the ``CFLAGS`` environment variable) to set
   the Host Machine. ``/usr/bin/clang --target=i686-pc-win32`` would
   create executables for 32-bit Intel/AMD Windows while
   ``/usr/bin/clang --target=x86_64-pc-win32`` would create executables for
   64-bit Intel/AMD Windows.

In addition to the Build-Machine-running, Host-Machine-producing compiler we
must also have C libraries to link against and C headers to compile against.
Since the C compiler will produce code that runs on the Host Machine, the C
libraries and C headers must be for the Host Machine. Those C libraries and
headers are collected in a directory structure called a **sysroot**:

.. code:: text

    <sysroot>
      └── usr
          ├── include
          │   └── *.h
          └── lib
              ├── *.a or *.lib
              └── *.so or *.dll

Changing OCaml to do cross-compilation
--------------------------------------

.. note::
    The technique presented here was first described by EduardoRFS,
    Antonio Nuno Monteiro and Romain Beauxis in
    `discuss.ocaml.org: Cross-compiling implementations / how they work <https://discuss.ocaml.org/t/cross-compiling-implementations-how-they-work/8686>`_

The build procedure for compiling the OCaml system starts with the Build Machine
generating the ``ocamlc`` compiler and the ``ocamlrun`` bytecode interpreter; in
other words both ``ocamlc`` and ``ocamlrun`` are Host Machine executables. To
continue building the rest of the OCaml system the ``ocamlc`` and ``ocamlrun``
executables must be run. So building an OCaml system requires that
**the Build Machine must be capable of running Host Machine executables**.

Without loss of generality we will only describe the Host Machine, and expect
you to use a compatible Build Machine. So a Windows 32-bit Host Machine
executable can be run on a Windows 32-bit or 64-bit Build Machine, but a
Windows 64-bit Host Machine executable cannot be run on a 32-bit Build Machine.

.. warning:: When can't a 64-bit Build Machine run 32-bit executables?
    Apple Silicon (M1, etc.) hardware has 64-bit ARM processors, but for cost
    and energy savings the 32-bit ARM circuitry has been removed. You cannot run
    32-bit ARM executables on Apple Silicon.

    Most 64-bit Linux distributions do not come natively with 32-bit system
    libraries; you have to install something called the "i386" architecture to
    run most 32-bit binaries. There are tricks around needing these 32-bit system
    libraries, but usually the i386 architecture is easy to install in popular
    Linux distributions.

**TODO: Describe Target Machine for OCaml and how it is different than javac**

**TODO: This following section needs fill-in and editing; especially Why? for each step**

Steps:

- Configure OCaml constants + configs for Target Machine
- Compile ocamlc and ocamlopt that runs on both the Build Machine and Host Machine.

  .. note::
      ocamlc/ocamlopt now will have configuration (ex. ocamlc -config) for the
      Target Machine, which is precisely what we want

- Compile all executable tools like ocamlyacc, ocamldebugger, etc. with the current
  ocamlc/ocamlopt
- At this point all of the executables run on the Host Machine
  
  .. note::
     ocamlc/ocamlopt now will produce bytecode + native code that runs on the Host
     Machine. We don't that. We want to fix ocamlc/ocamlopt to produce
     bytecode + native code that runs on the Target Machine.

- Remove *all* OCaml compiled intermediate code. We could be selective and just
  remove the portions that contain instructions for producing Host Machine
  bytecode + native code, but it is easier and safer to remove everything
  intermediate. The executable tools are not deleted because they are not intermediate.
- Recompile stdlib and its runtime dependencies (bytecode and native code runtime
  libraries) for the Target Machine
- Regenerate ocamlc/ocamlopt using Host Machine ocamlc (which will produce Host
  Machine executable ocamlc and Host Machine executable ocamlopt but that contain
  Target Machine standard + runtime libraries)
- Recompile stdlib again but include other libraries (unix, str, bigarray) for
  the Target Machine
- Recompile the bytecode and native code compiler libraries for the Target Machine,
  in case an Opam package or other OCaml package wants to bypass the compiler
  executables ocamlc/ocamlopt.

Limitations
~~~~~~~~~~~

The host ``ocamlrun`` is linked against the **host's** ``runtime/`` library which
defines the following constants in ``runtime/sys.c``:

+----------------------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| Constant             | Sample     | Description                         |
+======================+============+=====================================+
| word_size            | 32 or 64   | Number of bits in a word as detected|
|                      |            | by a C compiler ``sizeof()`` test   |
+----------------------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| int_size             | 31 or 63   | Number of bits in an OCaml ``int``  |
|                      |            |                                     |
|                      | 32 or 64   | - Always ``word_size - 1`` for      |
|                      |            |   ``ocamlrun``                      |
|                      |            | - js_of_ocaml (Javascript) runtime  |
|                      |            |   sets it the same as ``word_size`` |
+----------------------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| max_wosize           | 2^22 - 1 or| Max size in bytes of a block of     |
|                      | 2^(54-P) -1| memory on the heap                  |
|                      |            |                                     |
|                      |            | - No Array can be larger than this  |
|                      |            | - P is number of bits reserved for  |
|                      |            |   Space Time profiling (if any)     |
+----------------------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| ostype_unix          | True or    | Whether system is Unix              |
|                      | False      |                                     |
+----------------------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| ostype_win32         | True or    | Whether system is Windows           |
|                      | False      |                                     |
+----------------------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| ostype_cygwin        | True or    | Whether system is Cygwin            |
|                      | False      |                                     |
+----------------------+------------+-------------------------------------+
| backend_type         | 0 or 1     | Native (0) or Bytecode (1) backend  |
|                      |            |                                     |
|                      |            | - Other values possible for other   |
|                      |            |   compilers like js_of_ocaml        |
|                      |            |   (Javascript)                      |
+----------------------+------------+-------------------------------------+
|naked_pointers_checked| True or    | Whether the naked pointers checker  |
|                      | False      | is enabled                          |
+----------------------+------------+-------------------------------------+

Any commands like ``<host>/ocamlrun <target>/ocamlc -config`` will inherit
the host runtime constants (``<host>/runtime/sys.c``) even if all of the target
configuration (``<target>/utils/config.ml``) is correct. For example
you can easily get conflicting configurations from ``ocamlc -config``:

.. code:: yaml

    # ...
    architecture: i386  # From <target>/utils/config.ml
    model: default      # From <target>/utils/config.ml
    int_size: 63        # From <host>/runtime/sys.c . No, i386 does not support 63-bit integers!
    word_size: 64       # From <host>/runtime/sys.c . No, i386 does not support 64-bit words!
    # ...

.. important::
    During a cross-compilation the host and the target runtime library constants
    should be the same. The most critical limitations are:

    * if your target is a 32-bit system, make sure you use a 32-bit host compiler.
      That equalizes ``word_size``
    * if your target is a Unix system, make sure you run the host cross-compiler
      on a Unix system. That equalizes ``ostype_unix``
    * if your target is a Windows system, make sure you run the host cross-compiler
      on a Windows system. That equalizes ``ostype_windows``
    * no cross-compilation is supported in Cygwin because Cygwin only
      supports x86_64 Windows

Even if the host runtime constants were not inherited, there are a few more limitations
created by:

1. When ``ocamlopt`` is linking object files into an executable on Windows, it uses an
   executable called ``flexlink.exe`` that expects Windows ``.obj`` (COFF) object files
   for linking. However Linux uses ELF object files and macOS uses Mach-O object files,
   so a Windows host cannot support a non-Windows target.
2. When ``ocamlopt`` is linking object files into an executable on Windows, the host/target
   compiler must match (MSVC or MinGW) and the host/target word size (32 or 64) must
   match because ``flexlink.exe`` bundles a word size + compiler named object file
   ``flexdll_msvc.obj``, ``flexdll_mingw64.obj``, etc. into the final executable.
