## 0.2.0 (@@YYYYMMDD@@)

> The *Diskuv OCaml* distribution is available under the
[diskuv-ocaml Fair Source 0.9 license](https://gitlab.com/diskuv/diskuv-ocaml/-/raw/main/LICENSE.txt).
Other assets available on https://gitlab.com/diskuv/diskuv-ocaml/-/releases may have different
licenses; in particular source code files that prominently display a
[Apache-2.0 license](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt).

### Backwards incompatible changes

Backwards incompatible changes requiring the equivalent of a major version bump
(*using semver minor bump since version is still less than 1.0.0*):

* [Windows only] Changed OPAMROOT from `$env:USERPROFILE/.opam` to `$env:LOCALAPPDATA/opam`
  New and upgraded local projects will automatically use the new OPAMROOT after you have
  run `./makeit prepare-dev` (or `./makeit build-dev`)
* [Windows only] Renamed `make.cmd` to `makeit.cmd` so no PATH collision with GNU/BSD Make

### Upgrading from v0.1.0 or v0.1.1 to v0.2.0

You will need to:
* *(Windows only)* upgrade your *Diskuv OCaml* system
* *(Windows, Linux, macOS)* upgrade your Local Projects (ex. [diskuv-ocaml-starter](https://gitlab.com/diskuv/diskuv-ocaml-starter))
  which can be done at your leisure **before** the next system upgrade

FIRST, to upgrade the system (only necessary on Windows!) run the following in PowerShell:

```powershell
(Test-Path -Path ~\DiskuvOCamlProjects) -or $(ni ~\DiskuvOCamlProjects -ItemType Directory);

iwr `
  "https://gitlab.com/api/v4/projects/diskuv%2Fdiskuv-ocaml/packages/generic/distribution-portable/0.2.0/distribution-portable.zip" `
  -OutFile "$env:TEMP\diskuv-ocaml-distribution.zip";

Expand-Archive `
  -Path "$env:TEMP\diskuv-ocaml-distribution.zip" `
  -DestinationPath ~\DiskuvOCamlProjects `
  -Force;

~\DiskuvOCamlProjects\diskuv-ocaml\installtime\windows\install-world.bat;
```

SECOND, in each of your Local Project directories (both Windows + Linux/macOS), do the following:

```bash
git -C vendor/diskuv-ocaml fetch
git -C vendor/diskuv-ocaml reset --hard v0.2.0
git mv make.cmd makeit.cmd
git commit -m "Upgrade diskuv-ocaml to 0.2.0" vendor/diskuv-ocaml make.cmd makeit.cmd
./makeit prepare-dev
```

### Public Changes

New features:

* [Windows only] Auto-detect existing Visual Studio installations so that no automatic
  installation of Visual Studio Build Tools is performed. That means Administrator
  privileges are not needed if you have Visual Studio with the components that *Diskuv OCaml*
  needs. See `Windows Administrator Installation <https://diskuv.gitlab.io/diskuv-ocaml/doc/AdvancedInstalls/WindowsAdministrator.html>`
  for more details.
* [Windows only] Installs an internal copy of `vcpkg`, which in future releases will act
  as a Windows package manager to supply missing OCaml `depext` external dependencies.
  Limited support is available for Local Projects that have vcpkg manifests.
* Introduce `makeit` for Unix systems so that the same `./makeit` command can be
  communicated for both Windows and Unix users
* [Windows only] OCaml compiler now uses `+options` which enables AFL fuzzing among other things
* [Windows only] Distribute 'opam package manager for 32/bit + 64-bit Windows' as a zip and tar.gz on [diskuv-ocaml Releases](https://gitlab.com/diskuv/diskuv-ocaml/-/releases). They are compiled with Microsoft Visual Studio which means no GNU-licensed DLLs need to be distributed with your applications.
* [Windows only] Distribute 'opam repository of ocaml/opam Docker base image' as a zip and tar.gz on [diskuv-ocaml Releases](https://gitlab.com/diskuv/diskuv-ocaml/-/releases). This
  is currently a clone of fdopen's original MinGW repository, but will track whichever repository the Docker images use in the future
* [Windows only] Remove restriction on spaces in directory names

Security enhancements:
* [Windows only] The 'opam package manager for 32/bit + 64-bit Windows' and 'opam repository of ocaml/opam Docker base image' packages on [diskuv-ocaml Releases](https://gitlab.com/diskuv/diskuv-ocaml/-/releases) include reproducible build scripts for auditing and validation. Much of the reproducibility is already provided by Opam; other pieces include downloading from Git tags and Docker checksum image tags. Since Git tags is a weak form of reproducibility, and since the reproducible build scripts are missing SHA2 checksum validation at each build step, please checksum the artifacts yourself if you need this feature.
* [Windows only] Use SHA256 verification for MSYS2 installer.

Productivity improvements:
* Speed up creating switches by not auto-installing pinned packages simply because
  they have *Diskuv OCaml* patches
* [Windows only] Speed up *Diskuv OCaml* installation by removing the automatic download of ocaml/opam Docker images and instead using recompiled, much smaller [diskuv-ocaml Releases](https://gitlab.com/diskuv/diskuv-ocaml/-/releases). More details in *Removed* section below
* [Windows only] Removed two of six commands needed to install *Diskuv OCaml* on Windows from scratch.

Known issues:
* During `opam install` the local fdopen-mingw repository ~20MB tarball may be repackaged. If you have several packages and their dependencies to install, this disk I/O may significantly slow down your installation. Some of the performance degradation will be improved with the future trimming of that repository; see the *Deprecated* section below for more details.

New additions for the C language:

* `vcpkg` the C/C++ package manager for native Windows libraries
* `libffi` from vcpkg lets OCaml packages like `conf-libffi` and `ctypes` (currently unstable) use a standardized, cross-platform foreign function interface
* `libuv` from vcpkg supplies the Windows implementation for an upcoming patch of the OCaml bindings package `luv`
* [Windows only] To work around a LINK.EXE bug during 32-bit builds, two
  compiler versions are installed rather than one. The
  `Microsoft.VisualStudio.Component.VC.Tools.x86.x64` ("MSVC v142 - VS 2019 C++ x64/x86 build tools (Latest)")
  compiler used in *Diskuv OCaml* 0.1.x is necessary for vcpkg and as such is still installed in 0.2.x, but there is now a second compiler `Microsoft.VisualStudio.Component.VC.14.26.x86.x64` ("MSVC v142 - VS 2019 C++ x64/x86 build tools (v14.26)") used for C compiling in Opam packages.

New patches:

* `ocamlbuild.0.14.0` has fdopen@'s patches for MinGW, plus a new patch to let `ocamlbuild -where`
  pass through Windows backslashed paths from `ocamlc -config` without interpreting the backslashes
  as OCaml escape sequences
* `core_kernel.v0.14.2` is not new, but now it is pinned so that the MSYS2 compatible version is
  used consistently

MSYS2 changes:
* `pkg-config` was removed from MSYS2 and replaced with the native Windows `pkgconf` from vcpkg.
  `pkgconf` supplies C headers and libraries to the Microsoft compiler and linker with Windows paths.

### Patches only for OCaml package maintainers

> The packages listed below are patched in *Diskuv OCaml* and are available in any
> [*Diskuv OCaml* created switch](https://diskuv.gitlab.io/diskuv-ocaml/doc/CommandReference.html#opt-diskuv-ocaml-installtime-create-opam-switch-sh)
> and in any Local Project.
> They either have open PRs or have not been released to Opam, so they are **highly unstable**
> and _not_ meant for public consumption. They have been provided so that downstream OCaml packages
> (packages that consume *Diskuv OCaml* patched packages) can be tested by
> downstream OCaml package maintainers.

* `ctypes.0.19.2-windowssupport-r3` which is a few commits past `ctypes.0.19.1`
  with a patch to work with Microsoft compiler toolchain.
  Thanks for substantial review and code contributions from @fdopen and @nojb.
  [ctypes PR685](https://github.com/ocamllabs/ocaml-ctypes/pull/685)
* `mirage-crypto.0.10.4-windowssupport` which is a few commits past `mirage-crypto.0.10.3`
  with a patch to make it work with the Microsoft compiler toolchain.
  [mirage-crypto PR137](https://github.com/mirage/mirage-crypto/pull/137)
* `feather.0.3.0` patched to work with native Windows.
  [feather PR23](https://github.com/charlesetc/feather/pull/23)

### Deprecated

* The **fdopen-mingw** repository will be trimmed greatly in a future release. Currently it has multiple versions
  of many packages and its size causes many Opam commands to be slow. A future release will trim each package to
  only one version, and pin that version for reproducible behavior.

### Removed

* The ocaml/opam Docker images have been removed.
  * The MinGW ocaml/opam Docker image was present only to compile Opam
    into a native Windows executable, but that compilation is done separately with the Microsoft compiler
    and prebundled as a separate tarball.
  * The MSVC ocaml/opam Docker image was present for the fdopen-mingw repository, but as of this release the repository
    is prebundled as a separate `ocaml/opam` tarball.
  * The Docker images will still be downloaded on the rare occasion where the packages are not yet released on Diskuv's
    GitLab release page.
  * In the future, if anything is needed from MinGW, MSYS2 has a MinGW subsytem that is simple to manage.
* Cygwin is no longer automatically installed.
  * Cygwin will still be downloaded on the rare occasion where the `ocaml/opam` package has not yet released on Diskuv's
    GitLab release page.
