## 1.1.0 (2022-12-27)

Quick Links:
|             |                                                                                                                         |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Installer   | https://github.com/diskuv/dkml-installer-ocaml/releases/download/v1.1.0_r2/setup-diskuv-ocaml-windows_x86_64-1.1.0.exe     |
| Uninstaller | https://github.com/diskuv/dkml-installer-ocaml/releases/download/v1.1.0_r2/uninstall-diskuv-ocaml-windows_x86_64-1.1.0.exe |

**Upgrading from 1.0.1?**
1. Uninstall the old version first with the uninstaller above!
2. After uninstalling the old version, run the following in PowerShell:
   ```powershell
   if (Test-Path "$env:LOCALAPPDATA\opam\playground") { Remove-Item -Path "$env:LOCALAPPDATA\opam\playground" -Force -Recurse }
   ```
3. Exit Visual Studio Code and any `utop` or `ocaml` sessions. Then
   use the installer above.
4. After installing the new version, run the following in PowerShell **in each directory that has a local opam switch** to upgrade to
   OCaml 4.14.0 and all the other package versions that come with DKML 1.1.0:
   ```powershell
   # Sometimes `dkml init` can fail, but you are OK as long as you see:
   # ...  upgrade   ocaml-system                       4.12.1 to 4.14.0
   dkml init

   opam upgrade
   opam install . --deps-only --with-test
   ```

Cautions:
* Do not use this distribution if you have a space in your username
  (ex. `C:\Users\Jane Smith`). Sorry, but the broader OCaml ecosystem does not
  yet consistently support spaces in directories.
* Your Windows anti-virus may play havoc with the installer. If possible,
  temporarily disable your anti-virus (the "realtime protection",
  "exploit protection" and/or "malware protection" options). Some anti-virus
  products include a button to temporarily disable AV protection for two hours;
  do that. *If you forget and the installer fails, you will need to disable
  AV protection, run the uninstaller, and then rerun the installer!*

New features:
* The system OCaml is 4.14.0 (was 4.12.1)
* The system includes ocamlnat, the experimental native toplevel. It should be
  run using `with-dkml ocamlnat` so native code is compiled with Visual Studio.
* Add odoc 2.1.0 to user PATH, to align with the [OCaml Platform](https://ocaml.org/docs/platform).
* Relocatable native binaries are installed rather than compiled into place.
  Installations should be quicker, which is a pre-requisite for `winget install`
  on Windows.
* Add opam global variable `sys-pkg-manager-cmd-msys2` for future compatibility
  with opam 2.2 depext support of MSYS2
* The `opam dkml init` command is now `dkml init`. The `dkml` executable is
  precompiled and shaves ~20 minutes of installation time.

New security:
* (Advanced; experimental) If you are behind a corporate firewall that uses
  man-in-the-middle (MITM) TLS proxying, you can install your corporate CA chain
  so DKML, in particular MSYS2, does not reject connections. Only persons with
  write access to `$env:ProgramData\DiskuvOCaml\conf\unixutils.sexp` will be
  able to define the allowed MITM TLS chain; you may need access
  from your corporate Administrator. An example `unixutils.sexp` is:

  ```scheme
  (
      (trust_anchors ("C:\\conf\\my.pem" "D:\\conf\\my.cer"))
  )
  ```

  You specify one or more `.pem` or `.cer` CA files, making sure to use two
  backslashes to escape your paths. Your Administrator may have already placed
  the CA files on your machine; otherwise use the guide at
  https://www.msys2.org/docs/faq/#how-can-i-make-msys2pacman-trust-my-companys-custom-tls-ca-certificate
  to copy them from your web browsers.

Not so good problems:
* Many opam packages do not work with the MSVC compiler or with Windows.
  It will take a long time (months, years) to substantially improve Windows
  coverage. When you do find a package that fails to compile on Windows, please
  file an issue with whoever owns the package expressing interest in the
  package working on Windows. Please be patient: some package owners may want
  to see several people express interest before deciding the extra work is
  justified.

Breaking changes:
* Cross-compiling on macOS with dkml-base-compiler now requires you to be explicit
  which CPU architecture you are targeting. Before using `dune -x darwin_arm64`
  would always cross-compile both Intel and Silicon. Now Silicon developers
  need to use `dune -x darwin_x86_64` and Intel developers need to use
  `dune -x darwin_arm64`. The change was necessary to not rely on the presence
  of optional Rosetta2 translation. *Since this cross-compiling feature is little used, it does not warrant a breaking version bump*.

Documentation changes:
* The documentation site has moved to
  https://diskuv-ocaml.gitlab.io/distributions/dkml/. Please update your
  bookmarks!

Bug fixes:
* The dune.exe shim uses a cache containing the expensive-to-compute MSVC environment
  settings. A race condition populating the cache has been fixed.
* Repetitive opam repository updates, a source of slowness, were eliminated
  during installation.
* ocaml-crunch upgraded (pinned) from 3.2.0 to 3.3.1 to fix Windows/Unix path
  inconsistency and handling of CRLF. That and other changed package versions
  are:

  | Package             | Old Version | New Version  |
  | ------------------- | ----------- | ------------ |
  | dune                | 2.9.3       | 3.6.2        |
  | ocaml-crunch        | 3.2.0       | 3.3.1        |
  | cmdliner            | 1.0.4       | 1.1.1        |
  | uuidm               | 0.9.7       | 0.9.8        |
  | ptime               | 0.8.6       | 1.1.0        |
  | sexplib             | v0.14.0     | v0.15.1      |
  | lsp                 | 1.9.0       | 1.10.3       |
  | ocaml-lsp-server    | 1.9.0       | 1.10.3       |
  | jsonrpc             | 1.9.0       | 1.10.3       |
  | odoc                | 2.1.0       | 2.2.0        |
  | odoc-parser         | 0.9.0       | 1.0.1        |
  | stdio               | v0.14.0     | v0.15.0      |
  | base                | v0.14.2     | v0.15.1      |
  | mdx                 | 2.0.0       | 2.1.0        |
  | ocamlformat         | 0.19.0      | 0.23.0       |
  | ocamlformat-rpc     | 0.19.0      | *not pinned* |
  | ocamlformat-rpc-lib | 0.19.0      | 0.23.0       |

* The Visual Studio installation cleans up aborted previous installations.
* The Visual Studio installation, on failure, writes error logs to a location
  that isn't immediately erased.

Component changes:
* opam.exe is compiled directly from the opam master branch; no patches! There is
  still a shim but that shim just sets up environment variables and delegates
  to the authoritative (unpatched) opam.
* MSYS2 setup program is bundled inside the installer to lessen download TLS problems
  when a proxy is present (common with corporate/school Windows PCs).
  Resolves https://github.com/diskuv/dkml-installer-ocaml/issues/19

Reproducibility features:
* Packages promoted to central Opam repository:
  * dkml-runtime-common
  * dkml-runtime-distribution
  * dkml-component-opam
* Introduce simple spec for which package+versions are installed and/or compiled
  as part of the DKML distribution (in dkml-runtime-distribution). Eventually it
  will become authoritative.
* Introduce dkml-component-desktop which does CI for changes to that spec (aka.
  testing new package versions for Windows using MSVC), and builds all relocatable
  binaries like dune and ocp-indent used in the Windows installer. It is not
  yet in the central Opam repository.
* During installation any `CAMLLIB` environment variable (in addition to
  `OCAMLLIB` which was already checked) is renamed to deconflict with a new
  OCaml installation. Among other things, this provides an upgrade from
  CamlLight to OCaml. https://github.com/diskuv/dkml-installer-ocaml/issues/13

Usability tweaks:
* When building DKML packages like dkml-base-compiler, limit dump of Opam
  logs used for troubleshooting to 4 hours

Feature flags:
* Enable `--enable-imprecise-c99-float-ops` during OCaml compilation by setting

  ```scheme
  (
    (feature_flag_imprecise_c99_float_ops)
  )
  ```

  in `$env:ProgramData\DiskuvOCaml\conf\ocamlcompiler.sexp`. This is sometimes
  needed inside virtual machines like Vagrant

Licensing:
* Diskuv OCaml is fully open-source, and is targeted for pure OCaml development.
  Commercial tools and support are available from Diskuv for mixed OCaml/C
  development; however, Diskuv OCaml only has limited support
  for mixed OCaml/C. For example, the `ctypes` opam package has been patched
  to work with Visual Studio but is out-dated. Contact
  support AT diskuv.com if you need OCaml/C development.

Internal changes:
* with-dkml.exe is now configured as a opam wrapper relative to the
  installation directory ($DiskuvOCamlHome) rather than the tools opam switch.
  That change decouples your new switches (aka. opam dkml init) from another
  opam switch.
