## 2.0.0 (@@YYYYMMDD@@)

### Upgrading?

First uninstall the old Diskuv OCaml version using "Add or remove programs" in the Control Panel.

### What do I do after the install is complete?

You SHOULD read the "Install is done! What next?" at <https://diskuv-ocaml.gitlab.io/distributions/dkml/#install-is-done-what-next> documentation.

If you had any existing local switches, upgrade them by doing `dkml init`, `opam upgrade` and `opam install . --deps-only` in the local switch directories.

For projects using [`setup-dkml` (part of  `dkml-workflows`)](https://github.com/diskuv/dkml-workflows#dkml-workflows)
for their GitHub Actions / GitLab CI:

1. Re-run `dkml init`, `opam upgrade` and `opam install . --deps-only` in your project
2. Follow the FOURTH and FIFTH steps of <https://github.com/diskuv/dkml-workflows#configure-your-project>

### Changes

**Breaking change**: The global environment (where you can run `dune`, `utop`,
`ocamlopt` and a few other critical OCaml executables without having
to install your own opam switch) has changed significantly. Follow these
guidelines if you operate frequently in the global environment:

* Use `utop` and `utop-full` like you did in previous versions.
* If you want to use `dune` to compile native code libraries,
  create your own opam switch using `dkml init` in an empty directory.
* If you want to use `dune` to compile bytecode, you can turn on
  a feature flag by doing:

  * In *PowerShell* run `notepad $env:DiskuvOCamlHome\dkmlvars-v2.sexp`
  * Add the line `("DiskuvOCamlMode" ("byte"))` after the
    `DiskuvOCamlVarsVersion` line. Save the file.

More details can be found in the "Global Environment Change Details" section
below.

Why do this breaking change?

1. 2.0.0+ installations are faster because the global executables do not have
   to be compiled.
2. It gets the DkML distribution very close to having a lite "bytecode only"
   installer that does not need to install (heavy!) Visual Studio, MSYS2 and
   Git. This upcoming lite installer should be a good fit for educational
   settings.

Major non-breaking changes:

* The deprecated `fdopen` repository is no longer used. Previously DkML
  installed a smaller and smaller portion of the `fdopen` repository with each
  subsequent version. Now DkML is relies only on the central opam repository
  and the DkML opam repository.
* Dune upgraded to 3.8.3. Among other things, the installer no longer installs
  a C# file watcher proxy for `dune build -w`; instead Dune uses its own
  native Windows file watcher.
* The set of pinned packages during a `dkml init` local switch has gone down
  from approximately 4000 to 200. Rather than pinning each package in the
  opam universe to a heuristically-determined version, we pin only packages
  that we successfully build on Windows.
* The following packages are accessible by just typing `utop` without installing a switch:
  * [`refl`](https://github.com/thierry-martinez/refl#readme) reflection package
  * [`graphics`](https://github.com/ocaml/graphics#readme) package
  * [`base`](https://github.com/janestreet/base#readme) package

Bug fixes:

* The installer can now restart after a failed installation, without having
  to use the uninstaller.
* Allow setup to succeed on Windows filesystems that do not support the setting
  of file attributes
* FlexDLL object files `flexdll_initer_msvc64.obj` and `flexdll_msvc64.obj` (or
  32-bit variant on 32-bit installs) are installed alongside `flexlink.exe` so
  flexlink can be used by itself without setting `FLEXDIR` environment
  variable.

Known issues:

* When you opt into the `("DiskuvOCamlMode" ("byte"))` mode you will get an unfriendly
  `Cannot set stack reserve: File "coff.ml", line 1049, characters 4-10: Assertion failed`
  if you compile or link C code. Dune, for example, will implicitly use the C linker
  (`-output-complete-exe`) in its default rules if you have an `(executable)` clause. Telling
  Dune that you want bytecode using `(executable ... (modes byte))` is necessary but not
  sufficient. You will also explicitly need to use a ".bc" target like
  `dune build src/some-executable.bc` to create pure bytecode, which you can run with
  `dune exec src/some-executable.bc` or `ocamlrun _build/default/src/some-executable.bc`.
  Alternatively, just use `ocamlc` directly to create bytecode.

Changed packages:

| Package             | From                     | To                               |
| ------------------- | ------------------------ | -------------------------------- |
| dune                | 3.6.2                    | 3.8.3 (NOTE1)                    |
| xdg                 | 3.6.2                    | 3.9.0                            |
| utop                | 2.10.0                   | 2.13.1                           |
| ptime               | 0.8.6-msvcsupport        | 1.1.0                            |
| flexdll             | 0.42                     | 0.43                             |
| base                | v0.15.1                  | v0.16.1                          |
| sexplib             | v0.15.1                  | v0.16.0                          |
| stdio               | v0.15.0                  | v0.16.0 (NOTE2)                  |
| conf-pkg-config     | 2                        | 2+cpkgs (NOTE3)                  |
| base64              | 3.5.0                    | 3.5.1                            |
| checkseum           | 0.4.0                    | 0.3.4+android                    |
| cstruct             | 6.1.1                    | 6.2.0                            |
| diskuvbox           | 0.1.1                    | 0.2.0                            |
| extlib              | 1.7.7-1                  | 1.7.9                            |
| fix                 | 20220121                 | 20230505                         |
| mccs                | 1.1+9                    | 1.1+13                           |
| menhir{,Lib,Sdk}    | 20220210                 | 20230608                         |
| omd (double-check)  | 2.0.0~alpha2             | 2.0.0~alpha3                     |
| optint              | 0.2.0                    | 0.3.0                            |
| topkg               | 1.0.6                    | 1.0.7                            |
| yojson              | 2.0.2                    | 2.1.0                            |
| zed                 | 3.2.0                    | 3.2.2                            |
| stdcompat           |                          | 19+optautoconf                   |
| metapp              |                          | 0.4.4+win                        |
| ocamlformat         | 0.24.1                   | 0.25.1                           |
| ocamlformat-rpc-lib | 0.24.1                   | 0.25.1                           |
| lsp                 | 1.12.2                   | 1.16.2                           |
| ocaml-lsp-server    | 1.12.2                   | 1.16.2                           |
| jsonrpc             | 1.12.2                   | 1.16.2                           |
| cmdliner            | 1.1.1                    | 1.2.0                            |
| ocamlbuild          | 0.14.0                   | 0.14.2+win                       |
| bigstringaf         | 0.9.0+msvc               | 0.9.1                            |
| alcotest            | 1.6.0                    | 1.7.0                            |
| ocamlfind           | 1.9.1                    | 1.9.5                            |
| ctypes              | 0.19.2-windowssupport-r5 | 0.19.2-windowssupport-r7 (NOTE5) |
| ctypes-foreign      | 0.19.2-windowssupport-r5 | 0.19.2-windowssupport-r7         |

`dkml init` changes:

* The opam switch variable `dkml-abi` is available after running `dkml init`.
  The `dkml-abi` for 64-bit Windows is `windows_x86_64`.

#### Global Environment Change Details

* In previous versions, a time-consuming `dkml` opam switch was created during
  installation that contained `utop`, etc. The resulting executables were placed
  in the global environment. Since OCaml currently hardcodes library locations
  into executables, `utop` and the other executables (ex. `utop`) would have
  access to everything in the `dkml` opam switch.
* Starting in 2.0.0+, the `dkml` opam switch is no longer created during
  installation. Instead an OCaml native and bytecode compiler is created during
  installation, and separately pre-compiled bytecode libraries and
  pre-compiled shims (ex. `ocamlfind`, `utop`) are provided.
* The shims provide portability for `ocamlfind`, bytecode interpreters
  and bytecode libraries to run from any installation directory. See (NOTE4)
  for more details. Several caveats apply:

  * `ocamlc` and `ocamlopt` are *hardcoded* to access *only* the libraries
    distributed with the OCaml compiler
  * `dune` *defaults* to access *only* the libraries
    distributed with the OCaml compiler
  * `ocamlfind` defaults to finding no libraries; in a future version by default
    it will find *only* the libraries distributed with the OCaml compiler
  * By turning on the `DiskuvOCamlMode` feature flag you can get:

    * `ocamlfind` to find pre-compiled global bytecode libraries
    * `dune` to compile bytecode `.bc` files that reference the same global
      3rd-party libraries (run `ocamlfind list` to see them)

#### Footnotes

* (NOTE1) And all the remaining Dune packages except `xdg`
* (NOTE2) And most of the numerous Jane Street packages
* (NOTE3) `conf-pkg-config.2+cpkgs` downloads a native Windows binary `pkgconf` and
  makes it available to opam as `pkg-config`. *Package maintainers*:
  `pkgconf` supports native Windows slightly better than `pkg-config`. It is
  mostly a drop-in replacement, and `dkml init` (the tool to create switches)
  will set `PKG_CONFIG_PATH` to the location of CLANG64 MSYS2 packages. In a
  future release of DkML after Opam 2.2, CLANG64 MSYS2 packages will be
  installable through depext.
* (NOTE4): To avoid *Inconsistent assumptions over interface* errors all the global
  environment libraries and executables have to be compiled on the same machine:
  either all on the end-user machine (your Windows machine) or all pre-built on a
  CI machine. But in 2.0.0+ only the OCaml compiler and the OCaml standard
  library are compiled on your machine, so if you use `dune` to compile *native*
  code in the global environment your *native* code can only use the OCaml
  standard library.
* (NOTE5): Includes a bug fix for errno handling from Antonin Décimo, and all
  the prior changes in <https://github.com/yallop/ocaml-ctypes/pull/685>
