## 2.1.0 (@@YYYYMMDD@@)

### Upgrading?

First uninstall the old Diskuv OCaml version using "Add or remove programs" in the Control Panel.

### What do I do after the install is complete?

You SHOULD read the "Install is done! What next?" at <https://diskuv.com/dkmlbook/#install-is-done-what-next> documentation.

If you had any existing local switches, upgrade them by doing `dkml init`, `opam upgrade` and `opam install . --deps-only` in the local switch directories.

For projects using [`setup-dkml` (part of  `dkml-workflows`)](https://github.com/diskuv/dkml-workflows#dkml-workflows)
for their GitHub Actions / GitLab CI:

1. Re-run `dkml init`, `opam upgrade` and `opam install . --deps-only` in your project
2. Follow the THIRD step of <https://github.com/diskuv/dkml-workflows#configure-your-project>

### Major Changes

* Installation directory has changed from `<LOCALAPPDATA>/Programs/DiskuvOCaml` to `<LOCALAPPDATA>/Programs/DkML`
* Opam upgraded from 2.2.0 `alpha0` to 2.2.0 `alpha3`.
* The installer no longer auto-installs Visual Studio Build Tools, and a `setup*.exe` installer is no longer provided.
  Instead we use ["wget"](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/package-manager/winget/#install-winget) as described
  in [New Install Steps](#new-install-steps):

  > Windows Package Manager **winget** command-line tool is available on Windows 11 and
  > modern versions of Windows 10 as a part of the **App Installer**.
  >
  > You can [get App Installer from the Microsoft Store].
  > If it's already installed, make sure it is updated with the latest version.

[get App Installer from the Microsoft Store]: https://www.microsoft.com/p/app-installer/9nblggh4nns1#activetab=pivot:overviewtab

### Known Issues

* Can't upgrade to `ocaml.4.14.1` because of a complex issue with `ocaml-lsp` and `dune build` on Windows: <https://github.com/ocaml/opam-repository/pull/22902>. If your LSP is behaving oddly and/or does not have known bug fixes applied, you will have to wait until 4.14.2 is released at the end of the year.

### Bug Fixes

* Fix bug where the cross-compiler `ocaml` interpreter (ex. darwin_x86 -> darwin_arm64) was hardcoded
  with the cross-compiled standard library rather than the host standard library.
* `OPAMROOT` is respected during installation.

### New Install Steps

Windows 11 users already have `winget`, but Windows 10 users will need to [get App Installer from the Microsoft Store].

Then run these three steps from the Command Prompt or PowerShell:

```powershell
# Visual Studio 2019 Build Tools
# ------------------------------
#
# You can change "--installPath" if you need disk space (3GB+), but do not use spaces or parentheses. Bad: C:\Program Files (x86)
# You can review what components are installed at:
#   https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/install/workload-component-id-vs-build-tools?view=vs-2019
winget install Microsoft.VisualStudio.2019.BuildTools --override "--wait --quiet --installPath C:\VS --addProductLang En-us --add Microsoft.VisualStudio.Workload.VCTools --includeRecommended"

# Git for Windows
# ---------------
#
# You won't need this if you already have git.
winget install Git.Git

# Dkml
# ----
winget install Diskuv.OCaml
```

Because `winget` does not install dependencies, you can install the `winget` packages in any order.
The practical consequence is that the first time you run `opam`, `dune` or `dkml init`:

1. The OCaml system compiler will be built using the available, compatible Visual Studio
   (Visual Studio 2019 Build Tools or Visual Studio 2019 Community/Professional/Enterprise).
2. The opam root will be initialized.
3. The global "playground" switch will be installed.

You can do those steps now with a **new** Command Prompt or PowerShell windows:

```powershell
# IMPORTANT: If you run Windows in a VirtualBox, or have a computer manufactured before 2013 (ie. pre-Haswell or
# pre-Piledriver CPU), run the following instead to avoid https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml/issues/12513:
#   dkml init --system --enable-imprecise-c99-float-ops
dkml init --system
```

Minor benefits of this new install approach:

* System wide configuration options can be provided directly to `dkml init --system <more options>` rather than
  through user-written configuration files.

### Internal Changes

### Upgraded Packages

| Package       | From                  | To                    |
| ------------- | --------------------- | --------------------- |
| opam          | 2.2.0~alpha3~20230918 | 2.2.0~alpha3~20221228 |
| conf-withdkml | 2                     | 3                     |
